Initial implementation (#1)
projectsyn/component-syn-kube-prometheus: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/parameters.adoc

= Parameters

The parent key for all of the following parameters is `syn_kube_prometheus`.

The following kube-prometheus components can be configured:

* prometheus_operator
* prometheus
* alertmanager
* grafana
* node_exporter
* blackbox_exporter
* kubernetes_control_plane
* prometheus_adapter
* kube_state_metrics

== `namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `${_instance}`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
namespace: example-namespace
----

The namespace in which to deploy this component.

== `kubernetes_version`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `1.21`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----

> kubernetes_version: '${dynamic_facts:kubernetesVersion:major}.${dynamic_factskubernetesVersion:minor}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubernetes_version: '${dynamic_facts:kubernetesVersion:major}.${dynamic_facts:kubernetesVersion:minor}'
```

= Parameters

The parent key for all of the following parameters is `syn_kube_prometheus`.

> A shared instance of the following kube-prometheus component can be configured:

Reviewer 2: Probably worth it to add more detailed documentation (how-to or explanation) giving details on how "multi-instance" works for this component.

* prometheus_operator

Multiple instances of the following components can be configured:

* prometheus
* alertmanager
* grafana
* node_exporter
* blackbox_exporter
* kubernetes_control_plane
* prometheus_adapter
* kube_state_metrics

== `kubernetes_version`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `1.21`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
kubernetes_version: '${dynamic_facts:kubernetesVersion:major}.${dynamic_facts:kubernetesVersion:minor}'
----

The Kubernetes version of the cluster is used to consume the corresponding kube-prometheus version.

== `namespaces`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
namespaces:
  my-stack:
    labels:
      stack: my-stack
    annotations:
      description: Used to monitor my stack.
----

The `namespaces` parameter can be used to create a list of namespaces for the Prometheus stacks to be deployed.
The key is used as the name of the namespace and the value is used as the namespace metadata.
Namespaces can be removed from the hierarchy by setting the value to `null`.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

NOTE: The prometheus-operator deployed by this component will only reconcile resources in these namespaces.
```

Feel free to ignore this suggestion if it's not correct.

== `addons`

[horizontal]
type:: array
default:: `[]`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
addons:
  - remove-securitycontext
  - nodeexporter-remove-mountpropagation
  - podsecuritypolicies
----

A list of addons to configure the Prometheus stack.
Upstream addons can be found in the https://github.com/prometheus-operator/kube-prometheus/tree/main/jsonnet/kube-prometheus/addons[`addons` folder] of the `kube-prometheus` project.

> This components addons can be found in the https://github.com/projectsyn/component-syn-kube-prometheus/tree/master/component/addons[`component/addons` folder].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Addons provided by this component can be found in the https://github.com/projectsyn/component-syn-kube-prometheus/tree/master/component/addons[`component/addons` folder].
```

== `base`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
common:
  namespace: syn-prometheus
prometheus:
  enabled: false
  config: {}
  overrides: {}
alertmanager:
  enabled: false
  config: {}
  overrides: {}
grafana:
  enabled: false
  config: {}
  overrides: {}
node_exporter:
  enabled: false
  config: {}
  overrides: {}
blackbox_exporter:
  enabled: false
  config: {}
  overrides: {}
kubernetes_control_plane:
  enabled: false
  config: {}
  overrides: {}
prometheus_adapter:
  enabled: false
  config: {}
  overrides: {}
kube_state_metrics:
  enabled: false
  config: {}
  overrides: {}
----

The base configuration shared by all instances.
Can be overridden by the instance-specific configuration.

== `instances`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: {}
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
infra:
  common:
    namespace: monitoring-infra
  prometheus:
    enabled: true
    config:
      scrape_interval: 15s
      scrape_timeout: 10s
      evaluation_interval: 15s
  node_exporter:
    enabled: true
----

Instances contains the configuration for each instance of the stack that should be deployed.
`base` is used as the default values for the instance.

> Every deployable component can be configured by it's corresponding key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every deployable component can be configured in its corresponding key.
```

== `base.common`, `instances.common`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
common:
  images:
    alertmanager: 'my.quaymirror.tld/prometheus/alertmanager:v${kube_prometheus.common.versions.alertmanager}'
----

Common parameters to be passed down to all components.
The supported fields can be found https://github.com/prometheus-operator/kube-prometheus/blob/main/jsonnet/kube-prometheus/main.libsonnet[here] under the `values.common` key.
At the time of writing this dict supported the following fields:

=== `common.namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `syn-prometheus`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
common:
  namespace: my-monitoring-stack
----

The default namespace for all components.

=== `common.platform`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `null`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
common:
  platform: aws
----

Using a predefined mixin for a given platform.
A list of supported platforms can be found here: https://github.com/prometheus-operator/kube-prometheus/blob/main/docs/customizations/platform-specific.md

=== `common.ruleLabels`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{
  role: 'alert-rules',
  prometheus: $.values.prometheus.name
}`

> Default ruleLabels for all components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Default alert rule labels for all components.
```

= Parameters

The parent key for all of the following parameters is `kube_prometheus`.

The following kube-prometheus components can be configured:

* prometheus_operator
* prometheus
* alertmanager
* grafana
* node_exporter
* blackbox_exporter
* kubernetes_control_plane
* prometheus_adapter
* kube_state_metrics

== `namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `${_instance}`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
namespace: example-namespace
----

The namespace in which to deploy this component.

== `kubernetes_version`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `1.21`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----

> kubernetes_version: '$dynamic_facts:kubernetesVersion:major}.$dynamic_factskubernetesVersion:minor}'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
kubernetes_version: '${dynamic_facts:kubernetesVersion:major}.${dynamic_factskubernetesVersion:minor}'
```

----

The Kubernetes version of the cluster is used to consume the corresponding kube-prometheus version.

== `<kube-prometheus-component>.enabled`

[horizontal]
type:: bool
default:: `false`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----
prometheus.enabled: true
----

Whether this kube-prometheus component should be deployed.

== `<kube-prometheus-component>.params`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`
example::
+
[source,yaml]
----

> prometheus.params:

Reviewer 3: Not sure whether this would work like this, I think the examples should be copy-pastable

Author: Now it should be copy-/pasteable :)

  prometheus:
    spec:
    retention: '30d'
----

> Parameters to be passed down to the kube-prometheus component.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to get a bit more information here, for example, where I can find what keys I can pass to each component.

Additionally, I'd explicitly inform users here about the current gotchas when using multi-instance, namely, that they need to ensure that they don't install multiple `prometheus-operator` instances (to avoid fights over who gets to manage the CRDs), and to ensure that all instances which instantiate the same kube-prometheus component set a unique name with `<kube-prometheus-component>.params.name`.
